Nagios plugins by RogerBW


:check_ssl-cert

This is the SSL equivalent of check_tcp; it checks a TCP port (IPv4
only) to make sure (a) it can establish an SSL connection and (b) that
the certificate presented is valid. Ports 25, 110 and 143 will be
handled with the STARTTLS procedures appropriate to those protocols;
other ports (e.g. 443) will attempt a direct SSL connection. (This is
usually the right thing to do.)

Parameters:

-c, -w - number of days to generate WARNING/CRITICAL before expiry of
any certificate in the chain. (An expired or not-yet-valid certificate
is always CRITICAL.)

-H - the host's name or IP address.

-p - the port.

-n - the name of the certificate the host should present.

-C - the path to the certificate repository.

If you have no certificate repository, omit the -n parameter and no
chain verification will be attempted - the plugin will still confirm
that an unverified SSL connection is possible, though this isn't
terribly useful. Note that the certificate repository is NOT necessarily
the same as the repository in your web browser; if you get "UNKNOWN no
peer cert" for a secure server that works in the browser, use openssl
s_client connect host:port for a detailed diagnosis.


:check_alldisks_ide_smart

Intended to be run via NRPE; looks down /dev/disk/by-id and runs
check_ide_smart on each distinct entry that starts with ata- or scsi-,
then returns a summary result.


:check_aacraid

Intended to be run via NRPE; assumes you have an Adaptec RAID controller
and /usr/local/bin/arcconf, and looks for failure states (non-optimal
arrays, failed stripes, failed drives, non-optimal controllers).


:check_fileage

Checks the age of a named file (or directory). By default, alerts if it
is older than the set values.

Parameters:

-c, -w - number of seconds to trigger WARNING/CRITICAL alerts.

-f - path to file.

-n - alert if the file is NEWER than the warning/critical threshold.

-m - also alert if the file is missing.

-i - use the inode change time rather than the last-modified time.


:check_http_smarter

Does a more high-level check than check_http can handle; most
importantly, accepts and regurgitates cookies during a redirection.


:check_running_kernel

Checks that the sub-version of the current kernel matches an installed
package. Specifically, that the Debian package version of
linux-image-$(uname -r) matches the last word of uname -v.
